These documents describe a free, public specification. They are
provided by the authors under the following license. 

By obtaining and/or copying this work, you agree that you have read,
understand, and will comply with the terms and conditions that follow.

Copyright 2023, Shaping Documents project members

## Copying and redistributing the documents

Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, and distribute this work in
UNMODIFIED form, for any purpose, without fee or royalty, provided
that you include the following on all copies of the document that you
use:

1. The above copyright notice.

2. A link or URL to the original document.


### Modifying

No right to create modifications or derivatives of these documents is
granted pursuant to this license, except as follows:

1. References and quotations to facilitate implementation are
   permitted as described below. 

2. Translations of the full work into other languages are permitted,
   provided that such translations retain this full license, including
   the above copyright notice, provide a link or URL to the original
   work, and are prominently labeled as an unofficial translation of
   the original work. Such a label must appear at the beginning of
   each file.

3. Proposing and discussing patches, changes, and other updates is
   permitted, and is not considered creating a modified or derivative
   version of this work provided that such proposals or discussions
   preserve the attributions and direct links to the original.
   
The publication of derivative works of this document for use as a
technical specification is expressly prohibited.
  
  
## Implementation

Implementing the behavior and logic described in this work is not
considered copying the work.

Publishing or otherwise distributing an implementation of the behavior
and logic described in this work is not considered distributing or
creating a derivative of the work.

Implementations of the behavior and logic described in this work are
not required to be distributed under the terms of this license.


### Code components and symbol names

Code components, formulas, and symbols or tokens (including the names
used for constants, variables, and functions), clearly distinguished
by formatting as code elements in the work, are provided as
examples.

Usages of these examples in an implementation of the behavior and
logic described in this work are not considered copies of the work.

Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, and distribute these code
components, formulas, and symbols or tokens, for any purpose, without
fee or royalty, in modified or unmodified form.


### References and quotations

To facilitate implementation of the specification set forth in this
work, permission is granted to prepare and distribute partial
quotations of this document in software, in supporting materials that
accompany software, and in documentation of software, provided that:

1. The software source, materials, or documentation including such a
   quotation includes the above copyright notice and a link or URL to
   the original document.
   
2. As space permits, each file including such a quotation includes a
   link or URL to the original document accompanying the first such
   quotation.
   
3. Such quotations retain any chapter and section numbering as
   included in the original quoted segment.
   
4. Such quotations do not exceed 20% of the length of this work.


## Disclaimers

These documents are provided "as is", without warranty of any kind,
express or implied.
